README.md, before:

# gtp2ogs

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/online-go/gtp2ogs.svg?branch=devel)](https://travis-ci.org/online-go/gtp2ogs)

This javascript tool allows all bots/AI that support
[GTP (Go Text Protocol)](https://senseis.xmp.net/?GoTextProtocol)
to communicate with [OGS (Online-Go.com Server)](https://online-go.com/).

After being configured, gtp2ogs is ready to work as-is,
but it is also possible to customize it.

Being a bot admin on OGS means:

- you can put your bot online whenever you want
- choose settings to automatically accept or reject challenges
(example: rank, boardsize, blitz/live/correspondence, etc.), or to
control your GPU/computing device power spent (max number of
simultaneous games, corrqueue, etc.)
- choose your bot-specific options (for example `-v 1600` for leela-zero,
etc.)

## Full tutorial

[for windows and linux, with screenshots, examples, and detailed explanations](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial)

## Quick Guide

### 1. install node.js and npm

To install nodejs, you can:

- either use your system package manager (like apt-get for ubuntu)
- or download it from [nodejs website downloads](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
for linux or windows

note: installing nodejs will also install npm = node package manager. Both
will be needed later.

### 2. install gtp2ogs using npm

- For linux in terminal:

```Shell
sudo npm install -g gtp2ogs
```

default path install is:
> /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/

- For windows, open a node.js command prompt as admin, then run this command:

```Shell
npm install -g gtp2ogs
```

default path install is something like this:
> C:\Users\yourusername\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\gtp2ogs\

On all operating systems, gtp2ogs will be installed in 2 different directories, but
**the one that needs to be run with node is gtp2ogs.js in node_modules directory**

### 3. Recommended: Upgrade to devel branch

This step is **highly recommended**

By default, npm installs an old branch of gtp2ogs that does not include latest
improvements, new features, and fixes

An easy way to upgrade is to copy all the devel gtp2ogs files and folders
(bot.js, config.js, etc..) to the original directory where gtp2ogs is
installed, and overwrite the old existing files

note: before overwriting, you can backup your old files so that you can
go back to the old branch of gtp2ogs anytime later if you want

Then it is needed to do the post install:

The command below will automatically detect all missing packages needed
from the package.json of the new branch, and install all these packages

- for linux:

```Shell
cd /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/
sudo npm install
```

- for windows:

Open a node.js command prompt as admin, then:

```Shell
pushd C:\Users\yourwindowsusername\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\gtp2ogs\
npm install
```

For details or help, you can see:

- for linux: [3A3) Recommended: Upgrade gtp2ogs.js from old branch to “devel” branch (latest)](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial/blob/master/docs/3A3-linux-optional-upgrade-to-devel.md)
- for windows: [3B3) Recommended: Upgrade gtp2ogs from old branch to devel (latest) branch](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial/blob/master/docs/3B3-windows-optional-upgrade-to-devel.md)

### 4. Most common usage: start gtp2ogs.js using nodejs

For linux (preferably as sudo):

```Shell
node /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/gtp2ogs.js --username <yourbotusername> --apikey <apikey> <gtp2ogsargument1> <gtp2ogsargument2> -- /replace/with/full/path/to/your/ai/runfile.file <botargument1> <botargument2>
```

For windows (preferably as admin):

```Shell
pushd C:\Program Files\nodejs && node.exe C:\Users\yourwindowsusername\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\gtp2ogs\gtp2ogs.js --username <yourbotusername> --apikey <apikey> <gtp2ogsargument1> <gtp2ogsargument2> -- C:\Users\path\to\your\ai\executable.exe <botargument1> <botargument2>
```

note: for all operating systems, in `--`, the spaces after `<gtp2ogsarguments>`
and before `/path/to/your/bot.executable` are important: they separate gtp2ogs
arguments from your bot arguments

note 2: the number of `<gtp2ogsarguments>` and `<botarguments>` is not limited,
here only 2 were shown but it possible to use for example 3,4,5 , or as many as
you want
  
note 3: to play on [beta OGS server](https://beta.online-go.com/) instead of the
[OGS server](https://online-go.com/), add the `--beta` argument

## Options

You can find a list of all possible to use gtp2ogs arguments [here](/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md).

Before putting `<gtp2ogsarguments>`, you have to put the options [username](https://github.com/online-go/gtp2ogs/blob/devel/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md#username)
and [apikey](https://github.com/online-go/gtp2ogs/blob/devel/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md#apikey)
first.

Then, choose the wanted `<gtp2ogsarguments>` from the above [list of all options](/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md) section (no need to use all these options, only the ones you want),
and separate each option with a space

After that, add a `--` (with one space before and one space after the `--` ),
to separate `<gtp2ogsarguments>` from your bot path and `<botarguments>`, as
shown in
[Most common usage earlier](#4-most-common-usage--start-gtp2ogsjs-using-nodejs)

note: some gtp2ogsarguments have default so they are enabled even if you don't
specify them.

### Example of use

We are using the AI PhoenixGo on linux in this example,
but it works the same way on other platforms and AI:

```Shell
sudo node /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/gtp2ogs.js --beta --apikey 5rg46ze84f68e4g6v4e4g68es4g8 --username testbot --debug --startupbuffer 2 --bans 454,someplayer,489,512 --noclock --unrankedonly --maxconnectedgames 10 --maxconnectedgamesperuser 1 --minrank 5d --noautohandicapranked --maxhandicap 0 --fakerank 8d --boardsizes 19 --komis 7.5 --speeds live --maxmaintimelive 600 --maxperiodsliveranked 5 --maxperiodsliveunranked 10 --maxperiodtimeliveranked 60 --maxperiodtimeliveunranked 180 -- /home/amd2019/PhoenixGo/bazel-bin/mcts/mcts_main --gtp --config_path=/home/amd2019/PhoenixGo/etc/mcts_1gpu_beta.conf --v=1
```

### Submit Move Button

To avoid accidental misclicks while spectating a game from
your bot account,

see: [Submit-Move Button](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial#important-submit-move-button)

### Show winrate and variations ingame

**gtp2ogs has default support for showing ingame winrate and variations for some AI.**

see: [--ogspv](/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md/#ogspv)

## Community Involvment

- You may be interested in [Contributing](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- You may also use [Issues](https://github.com/online-go/gtp2ogs/issues)
to report issues.

- You may be interested in joining the Discord chat:
In leela zero discord (`#bots` channel): <https://discord.gg/HZ23Cp9>

This discord can also be useful if you want to have fast and quick,
interactive chat, or ask simple and quick questions (github Issues are
preferred for long problems because they live a track that can be useful
later)!

Commit message:

remove CONTRIBUTING.md, add link to DEV.md
should be done in a specific repo, it adds extra maintainance to keep
general github help here.

README.md, after:

# gtp2ogs

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/online-go/gtp2ogs.svg?branch=devel)](https://travis-ci.org/online-go/gtp2ogs)

This javascript tool allows all bots/AI that support
[GTP (Go Text Protocol)](https://senseis.xmp.net/?GoTextProtocol)
to communicate with [OGS (Online-Go.com Server)](https://online-go.com/).

After being configured, gtp2ogs is ready to work as-is,
but it is also possible to customize it.

Being a bot admin on OGS means:

- you can put your bot online whenever you want
- choose settings to automatically accept or reject challenges
(example: rank, boardsize, blitz/live/correspondence, etc.), or to
control your GPU/computing device power spent (max number of
simultaneous games, corrqueue, etc.)
- choose your bot-specific options (for example `-v 1600` for leela-zero,
etc.)

## Full tutorial

[for windows and linux, with screenshots, examples, and detailed explanations](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial)

## Quick Guide

### 1. install node.js and npm

To install nodejs, you can:

- either use your system package manager (like apt-get for ubuntu)
- or download it from [nodejs website downloads](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
for linux or windows

note: installing nodejs will also install npm = node package manager. Both
will be needed later.

### 2. install gtp2ogs using npm

- For linux in terminal:

```Shell
sudo npm install -g gtp2ogs
```

default path install is:
> /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/

- For windows, open a node.js command prompt as admin, then run this command:

```Shell
npm install -g gtp2ogs
```

default path install is something like this:
> C:\Users\yourusername\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\gtp2ogs\

On all operating systems, gtp2ogs will be installed in 2 different directories, but
**the one that needs to be run with node is gtp2ogs.js in node_modules directory**

### 3. Recommended: Upgrade to devel branch

This step is **highly recommended**

By default, npm installs an old branch of gtp2ogs that does not include latest
improvements, new features, and fixes

An easy way to upgrade is to copy all the devel gtp2ogs files and folders
(bot.js, config.js, etc..) to the original directory where gtp2ogs is
installed, and overwrite the old existing files

note: before overwriting, you can backup your old files so that you can
go back to the old branch of gtp2ogs anytime later if you want

Then it is needed to do the post install:

The command below will automatically detect all missing packages needed
from the package.json of the new branch, and install all these packages

- for linux:

```Shell
cd /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/
sudo npm install
```

- for windows:

Open a node.js command prompt as admin, then:

```Shell
pushd C:\Users\yourwindowsusername\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\gtp2ogs\
npm install
```

For details or help, you can see:

- for linux: [3A3) Recommended: Upgrade gtp2ogs.js from old branch to “devel” branch (latest)](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial/blob/master/docs/3A3-linux-optional-upgrade-to-devel.md)
- for windows: [3B3) Recommended: Upgrade gtp2ogs from old branch to devel (latest) branch](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial/blob/master/docs/3B3-windows-optional-upgrade-to-devel.md)

### 4. Most common usage: start gtp2ogs.js using nodejs

For linux (preferably as sudo):

```Shell
node /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/gtp2ogs.js --username <yourbotusername> --apikey <apikey> <gtp2ogsargument1> <gtp2ogsargument2> -- /replace/with/full/path/to/your/ai/runfile.file <botargument1> <botargument2>
```

For windows (preferably as admin):

```Shell
pushd C:\Program Files\nodejs && node.exe C:\Users\yourwindowsusername\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\gtp2ogs\gtp2ogs.js --username <yourbotusername> --apikey <apikey> <gtp2ogsargument1> <gtp2ogsargument2> -- C:\Users\path\to\your\ai\executable.exe <botargument1> <botargument2>
```

note: for all operating systems, in `--`, the spaces after `<gtp2ogsarguments>`
and before `/path/to/your/bot.executable` are important: they separate gtp2ogs
arguments from your bot arguments

note 2: the number of `<gtp2ogsarguments>` and `<botarguments>` is not limited,
here only 2 were shown but it possible to use for example 3,4,5 , or as many as
you want
  
note 3: to play on [beta OGS server](https://beta.online-go.com/) instead of the
[OGS server](https://online-go.com/), add the `--beta` argument

## Options

You can find a list of all possible to use gtp2ogs arguments [here](/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md).

Before putting `<gtp2ogsarguments>`, you have to put the options [username](https://github.com/online-go/gtp2ogs/blob/devel/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md#username)
and [apikey](https://github.com/online-go/gtp2ogs/blob/devel/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md#apikey)
first.

Then, choose the wanted `<gtp2ogsarguments>` from the above [list of all options](/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md) section (no need to use all these options, only the ones you want),
and separate each option with a space

After that, add a `--` (with one space before and one space after the `--` ),
to separate `<gtp2ogsarguments>` from your bot path and `<botarguments>`, as
shown in
[Most common usage earlier](#4-most-common-usage--start-gtp2ogsjs-using-nodejs)

note: some gtp2ogsarguments have default so they are enabled even if you don't
specify them.

### Example of use

We are using the AI PhoenixGo on linux in this example,
but it works the same way on other platforms and AI:

```Shell
sudo node /usr/lib/node_modules/gtp2ogs/gtp2ogs.js --beta --apikey 5rg46ze84f68e4g6v4e4g68es4g8 --username testbot --debug --startupbuffer 2 --bans 454,someplayer,489,512 --noclock --unrankedonly --maxconnectedgames 10 --maxconnectedgamesperuser 1 --minrank 5d --noautohandicapranked --maxhandicap 0 --fakerank 8d --boardsizes 19 --komis 7.5 --speeds live --maxmaintimelive 600 --maxperiodsliveranked 5 --maxperiodsliveunranked 10 --maxperiodtimeliveranked 60 --maxperiodtimeliveunranked 180 -- /home/amd2019/PhoenixGo/bazel-bin/mcts/mcts_main --gtp --config_path=/home/amd2019/PhoenixGo/etc/mcts_1gpu_beta.conf --v=1
```

### Submit Move Button

To avoid accidental misclicks while spectating a game from
your bot account,

see: [Submit-Move Button](https://github.com/wonderingabout/gtp2ogs-tutorial#important-submit-move-button)

### Show winrate and variations ingame

**gtp2ogs has default support for showing ingame winrate and variations for some AI.**

see: [--ogspv](/docs/OPTIONS-LIST.md/#ogspv)

## Community Involvment

- You may also use [Issues](https://github.com/online-go/gtp2ogs/issues)
to report issues.

- You may be interested in joining the Discord chat:
In leela zero discord (`#bots` channel): <https://discord.gg/HZ23Cp9>

This discord can also be useful if you want to have fast and quick,
interactive chat, or ask simple and quick questions (github Issues are
preferred for long problems because they live a track that can be useful
later)

## Developer Notes

You can find notes for developers [in DEV.MD](/docs/DEV.md)
